# 621. Task Scheduler

## Question

> Given a char array representing tasks CPU need to do. It contains capital letters A to Z where different letters represent different tasks. Tasks could be done without original order. Each task could be done in one interval. For each interval, CPU could finish one task or just be idle.
>
> However, there is a non-negative cooling interval **n** that means between two **same tasks**, there must be at least n intervals that CPU are doing different tasks or just be idle.
>
> You need to return the **least** number of intervals the CPU will take to finish all the given tasks.
>
> **Example:**
>
> ```text
> Input: tasks = ["A","A","A","B","B","B"], n = 2
> Output: 8
> Explanation: A -> B -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> A -> B.
> ```

## Analysis

#### Solution \#1: Greedy

1. The total cycles to execute all these tasks are the number of tasks + idle slots. So we want to minimize the idle slots.
2. Apparently, most frequent tasks contribute to the most of the idle slots. So our strategy would be, execute most frequent ones first and then fill in the slots with less frequent tasks.
3. So it's like creating **frames**, in each frame, most frequent ones are executed in a fixed order and there might or might not be idle slots left. 
4. E.g.1.
   1. `A x 3, B x 2, E x 2, n = 2   ====>    [A _ _ ] [A _ _ ] A`
   2. Each bracket is a **frame**, we create frames using the most frequent tasks.
   3. We'll just fill in the slots using the less frequent tasks.
5. E.g. 2.
   1. `A x 3, B x 3, E x 2, n = 2    ====>    [A B _ ] [A B _ ] AB`
   2. Now `[A B _ ]` is a frame.
6. E.g. 3
   1. `A x 2, B x 2, C x 2, D x 2, E x 1, n = 1 ====> [ABCD] ABCD`
   2. Now `[ABCD]` is a frame with no empty slot left
   3. In this time, we'll just append rest of the tasks to the back of each frame.
7. After we construct frames, it's just a matter of filling empty slots with less frequent tasks or appending them to the back of each frames. But what's our strategy then?
8. Our **strategy** is, still we'll insert rest of the tasks in descending order of their frequency. **Fill tasks frame by frame, one slot at a time, as evenly distributed as possible**.
9. E.g 
   1. `Ax4, Bx3, Ex2, Fx2, Gx2, n = 3    ====>    [A___ ][A___ ][A___]A`
   2. `[AB__ ][AB__ ][AB__]A`
   3. `[ABE_ ][ABE_ ][ABF_]A`, we fill F to make it evenly distributed;
   4. `[ABEF ][ABEG ][ABFG]A`
10. In this way we'll guarantee that:
    1. Tasks with same type, won't get conflicted with each other, because they are in the same position in each frame and frame will create enough space for them.
    2. Slots will be utilized at their best. Why? Because whenever we assign a task, it's guarantee not to make conflict with it's own type, so each time, one slot will definitely be taken. Take the same example, let's used another strategy to fill the slots: for each type of tasks, fill as left as possible:
    3. `Ax4, Bx3, Ex2, Fx2, Gx2, n = 3    ====>    [A___ ][A___ ][A___]A`
       1. `[AB__ ][AB__ ][AB__]A`, fill B
       2. `[ABE_ ][ABE_ ][AB__]A`, fill E
       3. `[ABEF ][ABEF ][AB__]A`, fill F
       4. `[ABEF ][ABEF ][AB->GG<-]A`, We create a conflict there, and we have to create another slot for them to clear the conflict, so final result will be:
       5. `[ABEF ][ABEF ][ABG_]AG`, there will be one slot not used wisely because of the flaw of this strategy
11. So if all slots are filled, we'll just append the rest of tasks to the back of the frame. That means, empty slots are not enough for the rest of the tasks. Eventually there will be not empty slots, the total cycles would be the number of tasks.
12. `E.g. Ax3, Bx2, Ex2, n = 1 ====> [AB]E[AB]EA`
13. So if not all slots are used, we'll just get the total frame size.

Ref: [https://leetcode.com/problems/task-scheduler/discuss/104496/concise-Java-Solution-O\(N\)-time-O\(26\)-space](https://leetcode.com/problems/task-scheduler/discuss/104496/concise-Java-Solution-O%28N%29-time-O%2826%29-space)

Time complexity would be `O(n)`. Space is `O(26)`.

## Code

```text
/**
 * @param {character[]} tasks
 * @param {number} n
 * @return {number}
 */
var leastInterval = function(tasks, n) {
  const map = new Array(26).fill(0);
  // map keeps track of # of instances for each tasks
  for (let task of tasks) {
    map[task.charCodeAt(0) - 'A'.charCodeAt(0)] += 1;
  }
  
  // sort tasks by their # of instances
  map.sort((a, b) => b - a);
  
  // i is the # of most frequent tasks
  let i = 0;
  while (i < 26 && map[i] === map[0]) {
    i += 1;
  }
  
  const frameSize = (map[0] - 1) * Math.max((n + 1), i) + i;
  
  return Math.max(tasks.length, frameSize); 
};
```

