# 76. Minimum Window Substring

## Question

> Given a string S and a string T, find the minimum window in S which will contain all the characters in T in complexity O\(n\).
>
> **Example:**
>
> ```text
> Input: S = "ADOBECODEBANC", T = "ABC"
> Output: "BANC"
> ```
>
> **Note:**
>
> * If there is no such window in S that covers all characters in T, return the empty string `""`.
> * If there is such window, you are guaranteed that there will always be only one unique minimum window in S.

## Analysis

#### Solution \#1: Two pointers, sliding window

Two pointers, `l` and `r`. We want to make sure that the window formed by these 2 pointers has all the characters in `T`. 

So we'll expand the right pointer and keep checking whether the window is valid. Once it's valid, we'll move left pointer `l` to decrease the window size and meanwhile making sure the window is still valid.

The **key point** is how to keep track of whether window is valid. We'll create a hash map for `T` to store all characters and their occurrences. When we update the window, we'll use another hash map to keep track of the characters in the window and their occurrences. 

But how to check the window is valid? If we compare two hash tables, it's gonna take `O(|T|)` time and it's too expensive. 

We're going to use an additional number to represent the number of unique characters in `T`. We call it `required`. When we slide the window, for current character we add into the window, if its occurrence in `dict` just happens to be the same in `dictT`, that means we cover 1 character and its occurrence in `T`. So we keep tracking the number of characters in the window that meet the requirement in `T`, and we call it `formed`.

When `formed === required`, we know the window is valid.

Time complexity would be `O(|S| + |T|)`. It takes `|T|` to construct `dictT` and in the worst case, we visit each char of `S` twice, once by left pointer and right pointer.

Space would be `O(|S| + |T|)`, for 2 hash maps `dictT` and `dict`. The worst case is the window is as long as `S` and when `T` has all unique characters.

{% hint style="warning" %}
Note that T could have duplicated characters, like T = 'aaa'.
{% endhint %}

## Code

```text
/**
 * @param {string} s
 * @param {string} t
 * @return {string}
 */
var minWindow = function(s, t) {
  const dictT = new Map();
  for (let i = 0; i < t.length; i++) {
    let char = t[i];
    if (!dictT.has(char)) {
      dictT.set(char, 0);
    }
    dictT.set(char, dictT.get(char) + 1);
  }
  
  const dict = new Map();
  const required = dictT.size;
  let formed = 0;
  let l = 0;
  let r = 0;
  let start = 0;
  let end = 0;
  let min = Infinity;

  while (r < s.length) {
    let charR = s[r];
    if (!dict.has(charR)) {
      dict.set(charR, 0);
    }
    dict.set(charR, dict.get(charR) + 1);
    
    if (dictT.has(charR) && dictT.get(charR) === dict.get(charR)) {
      formed += 1;
    }
    
    while (l <= r && formed === required) {
      const len = r - l + 1;
      if (len < min) {
        start = l;
        end = r;
        min = len;
      }
      
      let charL = s[l];
      dict.set(charL, dict.get(charL) - 1);
      if (dictT.has(charL) && dict.get(charL) < dictT.get(charL)) {
        formed -= 1;
      }
      
      l += 1;
    }
    
    r += 1;
  }
  
  return min == Infinity ? '' : s.substring(start, end + 1);
};
```

